---
permalink: /
title: "Coccidian parasites: biology and control of their environmental form, the oocyst"
excerpt: "Research?"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---


We use quantitative imaging and biophysical approaches to study how the oocyst form of the coccidian parasites survive environmental conditions and common inactivation methods to infect animals and humans. Our main models are Toxoplasma gondii and Eimeria spp. oocysts.


Probing the structure and mechanics of the oocyst wall
The oocyst and sporocyst walls appear as key structures to protect the infectious parasites (the sporozoites) the coccidian oocyst contains. To better understand
help the parasites to survive harsh environmental conditions and infect their hosts. 
The oocyst wall as a key structure that determines the transmission of and infectivity by coccidian parasites
We use Eimeria parasites as coccidian models to develop innovative single-cell force measurement techniques coupled to imaging to provide a quantitative characterization of the biophysical properties of the walls of oocysts exposed to treatments. A first objective is to develop atomic force microscopy and micromanipulation techniques coupled to fluorescence microscopy to characterize (i) the mechanics of the walls of untreated oocysts and the forces required for deforming or breaking them, and (ii) the nature and duration of adhesion forces at the wall surface. A second objective is to apply these techniques to characterize the resistance of the walls of oocysts exposed to ozone disinfection and osmotic stress conditions and link it to the parasite infectivity. We believe that the new data and methodologies generated by this project will provide a quantitative description of the key biophysical parameters of the oocyst wall that determine the behaviour and infectivity of coccidian parasites exposed to adverse conditions.

How to tackle the transmission of coccidia?

Response of coccidia to food and water decontamination treatments
We study the response of coccidia to common household and industrial inactivation treatments including chlorination and ozone. We explore the effects of such treatments on the structure, permeability, and mechanics of their walls, and in collaboration with parasitologists and 'omics' experts, we investigate whether treatments modify the oocyst transcriptome, proteome, and infectivity. To this aim, we contribute to develop alternative approaches to assess the infectivity of native vs. treated parasites by using cell culture coupled to qPCR and surrogate models. In particular, we aim at determining whether oocysts of the chicken *E. acervulina* and mouse *E. papillata*, which are produced more easily than *T. gondii* oocysts, can be used as non pathogenic surrogate models of T. gondii to assess the efficacy of physical and chemical decontamination treatments.

​

Coll. with Isabelle Villena & Loïc Favennec @ Reims & Rouen Univ, Stéphanie La Carbona @ Actalia Company, Jean-Michel Repérant @ANSES Ploufragan, Anne Silvestre @ INRAE Tours, Frédéric Ariey @ Cochin Instiute Paris, Christine Schaffer @Hubert Curien Institute Strasbourg, and David Ferguson @ Oxford Univ

​
